.\" Manpage for pass-words
.\" Report errors or typos at https://gitlab.com/entrez/pass-words/issues/
.\" Copyright 2020 Michael Meyer <me@entrez.cc>
.TH pass-words 1 "31 Jul 2020" "0.0.4" "Pass-words Manual"
.SH NAME
pass-words \- Generate mnemonic passwords in pass(1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpass words\fR [\fIgenerate\fR] [\fI-w file,--wordlist=file\fR] [\fI-s sep,--separator=sep\fR] [\fI--clip,-c\fR] [\fI--in-place,-i | --force,-f\fR] pass-name [\fIword-count\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpass words\fR is a 
.I pass(1)
extension for generating Diceware-style mnemonic passwords.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B pass-name
The name of the passfile where you intend the generated password to be stored.
.TP
.B word-count
The desired length of the resulting password, in number of words. If not
provided, will default to the value of
.B $PASSWORD_STORE_WORD_COUNT
if it exists, or 7 otherwise.
.TP
.B -w file,--wordlist=file
Specify a wordlist to be used in generating passwords. Such wordlist files
should be in plaintext, and formatted like Diceware wordlists such as this one
from the EFF, i.e. each line including a series of numbers followed by a word:
.br
.RS 12
.B https://www.eff.org/files/2016/09/08/eff_short_wordlist_2_0.txt
.RE
.TP
.B -s sep,--separator=sep
Specify an inter-word separator (this is typically a specific character, but
can also be a multicharacter string); e.g. with a separator of ` ' your
passwords will look like `blunt emboss precinct tubby', while a separator of
`.' will instead produce passwords like `blunt.emboss.precinct.tubby'.
.br
If not provided, will default to
.B $PASSWORD_STORE_DEFAULT_SEPARATOR
if it exists, or '' (no separator) otherwise.
.TP
.B --clip,-c
Copy the generated password to the system clipboard.
.TP
.B --in-place,-i
Do not interactively prompt; replace only the first line of an existing
password file with the newly generated password.
.TP
.B --force,-f
Do not interactively prompt before overwriting an existing passfile.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.LP
The variable
.B $PASSWORD_STORE_WORD_LIST
can be used to set the default wordlist file location; likewise,
.B $PASSWORD_STORE_DEFAULT_SEPARATOR
and
.B $PASSWORD_STORE_WORD_COUNT
can be used to define the default separator and word count, respectively.
.SH CONTRIBUTION AND AVAILABILITY
To contribute, to report a bug, or to download the latest version of this software, visit:
.LP
.RS 4
.B https://gitlab.com/entrez/pass-words/
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Written and maintained by Michael Meyer <\fIme@entrez.cc\fR>
.SH LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2020 Michael Meyer
.LP
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.
.LP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.LP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

